# 31. Next Permutation

A **permutation** of an array of integers is an arrangement of its members into a sequence or linear order.

* For example, for `arr = [1,2,3]`, the following are considered permutations of `arr`: `[1,2,3]`, `[1,3,2]`, `[3,1,2]`, `[2,3,1]`.

The **next permutation** of an array of integers is the next lexicographically greater permutation of its integer. More formally, if all the permutations of the array are sorted in one container according to their lexicographical order, then the **next permutation** of that array is the permutation that follows it in the sorted container. If such arrangement is not possible, the array must be rearranged as the lowest possible order (i.e., sorted in ascending order).

* For example, the next permutation of `arr = [1,2,3]` is `[1,3,2]`.
* Similarly, the next permutation of `arr = [2,3,1]` is `[3,1,2]`.
* While the next permutation of `arr = [3,2,1]` is `[1,2,3]` because `[3,2,1]` does not have a lexicographical larger rearrangement.

Given an array of integers `nums`, _find the next permutation of_ `nums`.

The replacement must be [**in place**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place\_algorithm) and use only constant extra memory.



For this question, for an Integer array, we can convert this question to the next larger number with the same Integer set.&#x20;

The idea is : we want to find a number larger than the current number, so we need to switch the larger number in the lower digit to a smaller number in the high digit. For example, 123, the 3 in unit is larger than 2 in tens, so swapping them can have a larger number 132. Back to the question, the next permutation is the Integer larger than the current number. so we need to search from the the tail of array (from the low digit to the high digit), check the right side of the digit.

if don't find it , move left and check the right side until find a larger digit.

if find that, swap the digit. we cannot find a larger number simply, but a number just larger than the current number, so we need to find the nearest larger number. and then we need to reverse the right side.

TC: O(n)

SC: O(1)

```java
public void nextPermutation(int[] nums) {
    if (nums.length == 0) {
        return;
    }
    int i = nums.length - 2;
    while (i>=0 && num[i]>=nums[i-1]) {
        i--;
    }
    
    if (i < 0) {
        reverse(nums, i+ 1);
        return;
    }
    
    int j = nums.length - 1;
    
    while (j > 0 && num[j] < num[i]) {
        j--;
    }
    
    swap(nums,i,j);
    reverse(nums,i+1);
}
public void swap(int[] nums, int a, int b) {
    int temp = nums[a];
    nums[a] = nums[b];
    nums[b] = temp;
}
    
private void reverse(int[] nums, int start) {
    int i = start, j = nums.length - 1;
    while (i < j) {
        swap(nums, i, j);
        i++;
        j--;
    }
}
```
